README.md, before:

# plsql_csv_tool
A tool written in PLSQL for converting data in csv file into database tables. The database table can be created on the fly
because the first line/record must contain the column names. The csv data is passed as varchar2 parameter, hence the 32k size limit applies

To install and use, you need an Oracle database account with CREATE TABLE and PROCEDURE privileges and tablespace quota for your data. The installed code comprises of a single PLSQL package. It has been tested with SQLPLUS. To install type in the following line after login:

@pkg_utl_csv-def.sql
@pkg_utl_csv-impl.sql

To use, look at one of the two test scripts:

test-pkg_utl_csv-insert2table-create_tab.sql
test-pkg_utl_csv-insert2table.sql

The former instructs to create the target table before loading data. In this case all columns are defined as varchar2 but you can specify a uniform length of all columns. The latter assume the table with the proper column names and data types already exists. For convenience, a CREATE TABLE DDL statement is included before calling the PLSQL code.

Notes: The package body contains calls to the utility procedures which exist in my environment. When publishing this package to the world, I did not feel like removing them since they are useful for debugging. For I did instead is defining dummy procedures within the package with the same name. For the same reason, many procedures have the exception handler block which calls these procedures. The drawback is that when an error pops up, it is not easy to spot on the which line of code the exception is raised initially. You may want to remove the exception handlers.


Common errors:

  ORA-01741: illegal zero-length identifier -> Usually it is because you forget to specify the target column names as the first line of the CSV string.

Commit message:

pkg spec was saved with one line missing. readme updated

README.md, after:

# plsql_csv_tool
A tool written in PLSQL for converting data in csv file into database tables. The database table can be created on the fly
when you tell the procedure that the first line/record contains the column names. The csv data is passed as varchar2 parameter, hence the 32k size limit applies.

For data which exists the 32k limit, and if you have the permissions to upload the data as file to the database server, have a look at procedure INSERT2TABLE_FROM_FILE.

Another reason to to go via file: when the data is not ASCII, but for example UTF encoded in one of many flavors, null bytes are contained in the data. SQL Developer and possible other Oracle client tools have troubkle handling with that. INSERT2TABLE_FROM_FILE contains code to strip off these null bytes. 

To install and use, you need an Oracle database account with CREATE TABLE and PROCEDURE privileges and tablespace quota for your data. The installed code comprises of a single PLSQL package. It has been tested with SQLPLUS. To install type in the following line after login:

@pkg_utl_csv-def.sql
@pkg_utl_csv-impl.sql

To use, look at one of the two test scripts:

test-pkg_utl_csv-insert2table-create_tab.sql
test-pkg_utl_csv-insert2table.sql

The former instructs to create the target table before loading data. In this case all columns are defined as varchar2 but you can specify a uniform length of all columns. The latter assume the table with the proper column names and data types already exists. For convenience, a CREATE TABLE DDL statement is included before calling the PLSQL code.

Notes: The package body contains calls to the utility procedures which exist in my environment. When publishing this package to the world, I did not feel like removing them since they are useful for debugging. For I did instead is defining dummy procedures within the package with the same name. For the same reason, many procedures have the exception handler block which calls these procedures. The drawback is that when an error pops up, it is not easy to spot on the which line of code the exception is raised initially. You may want to remove the exception handlers.


Common errors:

  ORA-01741: illegal zero-length identifier -> Usually it is because you forget to specify the target column names as the first line of the CSV string.
